Postmortem Report: Service Outage Due to major API Issue on November 10, 2023
Issue Summary:
Duration: Outage occurred on November 10, 2023, from 14:00 AM to 9:50 PM (UTC).
Impact: TOutage affected all web applications running on our api cosing ("too many requests error")
Users were unable to load any data on any page at all and instead of data of available articles the error message was shown.
This issue affected all our users.
Root Cause: accidental droping compability of legacy depricated code on v1 of our api and not moving to newer versions who has this error recitified.
Timeline:
Detection Time: detection happend at 14:20 AM (UTC) when our call center was flooded by reports that articles were not being added to acricles section,
and an error was being shown on the level of all pages loading data from api with or without filter.
Detection Method: A call complaint triggered invistigation by our internal  maintenance team on shift.
Actions Taken: case was urgently forwarded to responsible the engineering team began starting with a reverting to the last working build, then review of the pushed code, and cross checking with last working version verion.
Misleading Paths: too many changes border line breaking our agile methodology hence the load to check is bigger than standard and without a working last build, it would be disaster.
Escalation: incident was escalated to the senior engineers due to issue made by juniors lacking experience and lax attitude.
Resolution: issue was resolved at 9:50 AM (UTC) when the faulty code was identified amoung the plethora of reasons that could cause issues in the changed code.

Root Cause and Resolution:
Root Cause: the cause was a coding issue within the api block responsible for enforcing rules accross all api versions, faulty and incomplete implementation combining new code and legact code meant for backward compatibility.
Resolution: issue was fixed via recitifying the block to accept more paramaters optionally if they exist or go to default v1 if not exists.

Corrective and Preventative Measures:
Improvements/Fixes:
all junior engineers are going through a siminar of the importance of agile methodology, correct CI/CD Operation.
new correct code was pushed and made the new version of the code a stable major version with enhanced filters and features.
